have you ever been to a wedding you're
listening to a speech and you want to
put your face in your palm because it is
so cringy to listen to or it's going on
for way too long or it's
awkward these are unfortunately common
mistakes we see many times at weddings
when people deliver speeches and in this
video I'm going to give you seven
specific tips things to avoid when
delivering a speech at a wedding the
first thing to avoid is not preparing
enough if you are giving a wedding
speech you need to practice many people
have this belief that you can wing it
when it comes to wedding speeches but
99.9% of the time these wedding speeches
that include somebody winging it crash
and burn or they're okay but they're not
as good as they could be the reality is
we need to think about how we're
building our speech build a structure
and then from there practice delivering
it practice the humor practice the
introduction practice the conclusion
because the more times we familiarize
ourselves with the content it's going to
become more comfortable so when we get
to the wedding on the day of we're going
to feel some nerves before we deliver
that speech but the more we've practiced
the more likely we are to be comfortable
and to quickly deliver that speech with
confidence and not run into one of those
mistakes but those people who do not
practice are much more likely to not do
a great job when it comes to delivering
the wedding speech the second thing to
avoid is making your speech too long
ideally you want your wedding speech to
be anywhere in the 3 to 6 Minute range
anything longer than 6 minutes feels
pretty long when you're an audience
member especially if there's several
speeches that are being given and
anything shorter than 3 minutes it's a
little disappointing as well it feels
like you've maybe missed the opportunity
to talk a little bit more in depth so
aim for that 3 to 6 Minute range but if
you find you're practicing your speech
and it's seven or eight or 9 or 10 plus
minutes that is too long you're going to
want to go back to the drawing board and
try to reduce the time in that speech
the next thing to avoid is overly
embarrassing the bride or the groom now
I'm not going to tell you to not at all
maybe tell a funny story or get a little
bit of laughter or something that
lightly pokes fun of traits that the
bride or groom have I think that's okay
but it's a thin line and you have to be
careful not to cross that line because
the last thing you want to do is
embarrass the bride or the groom to an
extreme level on their biggest day in
front of their most loved ones their
family their friends those who matter
the most to them in life you don't want
to Simply roast those individuals so
approach this with caution in many of my
wedding speeches I've injected a little
bit of embarrassment perhaps to get some
laughs to get some humor but I quickly
complement that with the positive things
about the bride and the groom to ensure
it's not just me roasting those people
the next mistake people make is
forgetting to mention both Partners if
I'm delivering a best man speech of
course the majority of my speech is
going to be about the groom the
individual who I am the best man of
however it would be a mistake for me not
to also include his partner because that
person it's their wedding as well and
it's important even if I don't have as
close of a relationship with that person
I should still bring them in for about
at least 20% of the speech to mention
them to mention why they're a great
person to mention why the two of these
people make a great couple this is an
important factor to include both
individuals the next mistake is making
it all about yourself it is not your big
day it is the couple's big day who is
getting married if you go to the front
and you talk about why you're such a
great person and you make every story
about yourself while Loosely referencing
the couple that is getting married
people aren't going to like that they're
going to see through it it's kind of an
ego-driven approach you don't want to
make it all about yourself of course you
can inject yourself in the story but
what I suggest is you look for
opportunities to actually poke a bit of
fun of yourself through some
self-deprecating humor because that's
really going to resonate with the
audience if you can do that tactically
and get the audience laughing as you
poke fun of yourself while still making
the bride or the groom be the hero in
the story people are really going to
resonate with that type of wedding
speech the next mistake to avoid and
it's one of my personal biggest pet
peeves is inside jokes they don't work
many people will give a wedding speech
and they'll say hey Sarah you remember
that time we were in college you you
know what I'm talking about cool I guess
Sarah knows but nobody else knows what
you're talking about and many people use
inside jokes when they're telling a
wedding speech you need to tell jokes or
give stories where everyone can feel
included when you tell an inside joke
it's not going to get laughter from the
audience because the audience doesn't
really know what's going on and if just
a couple random people are laughing
that's nice for them but that would be a
joke better told when you're just with
those people so if you're using humor
include the full audience so they can
get the full experience of your speech
the final mistake people make is when it
comes to their conclusion they will end
the wedding speech sort of
abruptly and they'll walk away perhaps
they'll forget to raise a cup to toast
to the rest of the audience often
wedding speeches will end with a toast
but as your conclusion don't end
abruptly do your best to tie a nice bow
on the end of that speech and one of the
strategies you can use is by bringing
the speech full circle
what this means is if you mention
something right out of the beginning
then you talk about the bride or the
groom you tell some stories the idea of
Ending full circle is by referencing
that first thing you started with an
example I've used in the past on this
channel if I was Billy's best man I
could start my speech by saying many
people thought Billy and I have always
been best of friends but the reality is
in fifth grade we were Archen
enemies okay that's the intro to my
speech then I tell probably the story
about fifth grade I tell more
information about Billy and then as I'm
wrapping up my speech I can bring it
full circle by saying even though my
fifth grade self might
disagree I wish Billy and Sarah all the
love and happiness in the
future I brought the speech full circle
I referenced the thing I mentioned at
the very beginning and brought it all
the way to the end and by concluding
your speech strong it is going to leave
a lasting impression with the audience I
hope these seven mistakes to avoid when
delivering a wedding speech were helpful
to you I have many other videos that go
further into the whole wedding speech
process the video that's going to pop up
right now is about how to deliver a best
man speech I also have videos on how to
MC weddings and much other content on my
channel so if you not already done so
please subscribe to my channel so you
never miss a video thank you so much for
taking the time to watch this video I
will catch you on the next one